README.md, before:

# Gray Area Festival Video Archive

https://quilime.github.io/gray-area-video-archive


## TODO

### Aggregation Page

  - [ ] Festival description per year
  - [ ] Hot tags
  - [x] Starting page
  - [x] Rev chron by year (sortable)
  - [x] Year tags

### Hosting

  - [ ] Investigate decentralized storage for videos (IPFS?)

## New Metadata

  - Used for more fidelity in Video Archive
  - Retrieved in Video JSON and parsed
  - Metadata delimiter (6 equals signs) "======"
  - `key: value` format
  - Append raw metadata to bottom of YouTube Description field
  - When parsed in the archive JSON, prepended with `meta_`, for example, `festival_year: 2015` becomes `{ "meta_festival_year" : "2015" }` in the archive json

```
======
featured: <featured person(s), or group>
featured_url: https://www.ruhabenjamin.com
festival_year: 2015
... additional metadata as needed ...
```

## Install

Using [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/) CLI for CSS generation.

```bash
npm install -D tailwindcss
npx tailwindcss init
```

Use `./bin/watch` to build css to `./dist/output.css`



## Scripts

## Compile Archive Database

Compile JSON formatted database to be queried from the front end.

Usage `compile-db.js source dest`

- `source` A JSON file or folder of JSON files of YouTube metadata scraped from YouTube via ytdlp
- `dest` A destination folder to write the JSON single-file database. Will prompt to confirm overwrite.


## Get YouTube Metadata

Download YouTube metadata in JSON format from single YouTube video, playlist, or playlists.

Usage `get-youtube-metadata.sh destination`

- `destination` A destination folder to save the JSON data

Example
```
# get all 2021 videos
./bin/get-youtube-metadata.sh https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLm8zJ0HKEJIbQgPDRsUHiawVtahvShN8X ./data/videos/2021/
```

## Get YouTube Subs from Json Data

Download YouTube auto-generated subtitles in English (en) .vtt subtitle format using information existing YouTube JSON metadata (prerequiste). Will create .vtt files alongside source JSON

Usage `get-all-subs.sh sourceDir`

- `sourceDir` A source folder of YouTube JSON metadata files


## Get YouTube Autogenerated Transcription/Subtitles

Download auto-generated transcription/subtitles in English for given YouTube ID

Usage `get-youtube-subs.sh youtube_id [dest]`

- `youtube_id` A YouTubeID
- `dest` (optional) .vtt output destination. Default output will be alongside the source.


## Localhost (dev)

Serve locally for dev via Python http server

Usage: `serve`


## Watch (Tailwind CSS)

Watch for CSS changes and build output css to `./dist/output.css`

Usage: `watch`


# Notes

alpine and pagination
https://www.raymondcamden.com/2022/05/02/building-table-sorting-and-pagination-in-alpinejs
https://codepen.io/cfjedimaster/pen/ExQaZQZ

openai whisper
https://www.pinecone.io/learn/openai-whisper/
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vpU_6x3jowg
https://github.com/jamescalam/ask-youtube/tree/main/youtube-search

subtitles
https://superuser.com/questions/927523/how-to-download-only-subtitles-of-videos-using-youtube-dl

download subs for id
yt-dlp --sub-lan=en --write-auto-sub --skip-download vy2yuh_ENNA


only list selected keys

    <div x-data="{ open: false, selectedKeys: ['id', 'title', 'description', 'duration', 'playlists'] }">
      <h3><a href="#;" x-on:click="open = !open" x-text="'Metadata ' + (open ? '▾' : '▸')"></a></h3>
      <template x-if="open">
        <ul>
          <template x-for="key in Object.keys(selVideo).filter(key => selectedKeys.includes(key))">
              <li>
                <span x-text="key"></span>
                <span x-html="String(selVideo[key]).replace(/\n/g, '<br />')"></span>
              </li>
          </template>
        </ul>
      </template>
    </div>

Commit message:

Adding build scripts for Tailwind and minified CSS output

README.md, after:

# Gray Area Festival Video Archive

https://quilime.github.io/gray-area-video-archive


## TODO

### Aggregation Page

  - [ ] Festival description per year
  - [ ] Hot tags
  - [x] Starting page
  - [x] Rev chron by year (sortable)
  - [x] Year tags

### Hosting

  - [ ] Investigate decentralized storage for videos (IPFS?)

## New Metadata

  - Used for more fidelity in Video Archive
  - Retrieved in Video JSON and parsed
  - Metadata delimiter (6 equals signs) "======"
  - `key: value` format
  - Append raw metadata to bottom of YouTube Description field
  - When parsed in the archive JSON, prepended with `meta_`, for example, `festival_year: 2015` becomes `{ "meta_festival_year" : "2015" }` in the archive json

```
======
featured: <featured person(s), or group>
featured_url: https://www.ruhabenjamin.com
festival_year: 2015
... additional metadata as needed ...
```

## Install

Using [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/) CLI for CSS generation.

```bash
npm install -D tailwindcss
npx tailwindcss init
```

Use `./bin/css-watch` to watch for change and output css to `./dist/output.css`.

Use `./bin/css-build` to output minified css to `./dist/output.css` for production.



## Scripts

## Compile Archive Database

Compile JSON formatted database to be queried from the front end.

Usage `compile-db.js source dest`

- `source` A JSON file or folder of JSON files of YouTube metadata scraped from YouTube via ytdlp
- `dest` A destination folder to write the JSON single-file database. Will prompt to confirm overwrite.


## Get YouTube Metadata

Download YouTube metadata in JSON format from single YouTube video, playlist, or playlists.

Usage `get-youtube-metadata.sh destination`

- `destination` A destination folder to save the JSON data

Example
```
# get all 2021 videos
./bin/get-youtube-metadata.sh https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLm8zJ0HKEJIbQgPDRsUHiawVtahvShN8X ./data/videos/2021/
```

## Get YouTube Subs from Json Data

Download YouTube auto-generated subtitles in English (en) .vtt subtitle format using information existing YouTube JSON metadata (prerequiste). Will create .vtt files alongside source JSON

Usage `get-all-subs.sh sourceDir`

- `sourceDir` A source folder of YouTube JSON metadata files


## Get YouTube Autogenerated Transcription/Subtitles

Download auto-generated transcription/subtitles in English for given YouTube ID

Usage `get-youtube-subs.sh youtube_id [dest]`

- `youtube_id` A YouTubeID
- `dest` (optional) .vtt output destination. Default output will be alongside the source.


## Localhost (dev)

Serve locally for dev via Python http server

Usage: `serve`


## Watch

Watch for CSS changes and build output CSS to `./dist/output.css` with TailwindCSS

Usage: `watch`


## Build

Build minified CSS to `./dist/output.css` with TailwindCSS

Usage: `build`


# Notes

alpine and pagination
https://www.raymondcamden.com/2022/05/02/building-table-sorting-and-pagination-in-alpinejs
https://codepen.io/cfjedimaster/pen/ExQaZQZ

openai whisper
https://www.pinecone.io/learn/openai-whisper/
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vpU_6x3jowg
https://github.com/jamescalam/ask-youtube/tree/main/youtube-search

subtitles
https://superuser.com/questions/927523/how-to-download-only-subtitles-of-videos-using-youtube-dl

download subs for id
yt-dlp --sub-lan=en --write-auto-sub --skip-download vy2yuh_ENNA


only list selected keys

    <div x-data="{ open: false, selectedKeys: ['id', 'title', 'description', 'duration', 'playlists'] }">
      <h3><a href="#;" x-on:click="open = !open" x-text="'Metadata ' + (open ? '▾' : '▸')"></a></h3>
      <template x-if="open">
        <ul>
          <template x-for="key in Object.keys(selVideo).filter(key => selectedKeys.includes(key))">
              <li>
                <span x-text="key"></span>
                <span x-html="String(selVideo[key]).replace(/\n/g, '<br />')"></span>
              </li>
          </template>
        </ul>
      </template>
    </div>
